# Musicology

Motown was a widely cherished label that has produced a lot of hits in the sixties and seventies. However, Motown wasn't the only label producing tracks during these times. Some of the most popular competitors are Reprise Records and Warner Bros Records. These three labels were very big in the sixties, but Motown has made such an impact that it is remembered as the biggest record label in the sixties by most people. The main goal of this project will be to analyse and understand what musical choices Motown made differently than its competitors. To achieve this goal a Corpus of 206 tracks has been put together containing the greatest hits from Motown and popular tracks made by artists who performed under either Reprise Records or Warner Bros Records. Motown Has always aimed to make music that was close to the roots of black blues musicians, but was still inclusive for every person to listen to. This means that the sound of  Motown is a lot more similar to blues than the sound of competing record labels. Because the sound of Motown had been adjusted to everyone, the tracks produced by Motown also have gained inspiration by modern music. A good example of this is ‘How sweet it is’ by Marvin Gaye or “I can’t help myself’ by Four Tops. These tracks perfectly show a type of blues that is more adjusted to the west in the sixties, since ‘black’ music was not appreciated. In this project the sound of Motown will be analysed in contrast to its competing labels.

The First image shows the energy, acousticness and popularity of the tracks. The tracks have been divided into two classes, namely from_motown and not from_motown. This class describes wether a class is produced by Motown or not. It is interesting to see that the tracks both by and not by Motown are slightly clustered. This means that we cannot draw a conclusion to what made Motown so popular yet. Furthermore the image shows that acousticness and energy show a negative corelation. The less acoustic a track gets, the more energy a track contains
